## 网络

### ResNet

+  P . Hu, D. Cai, S. Wang, A. Yao, and Y . Chen, “Learning supervised
  scoring ensemble for emotion recognition in the wild,” in Proceedings
  of the 19th ACM International Conference on Multimodal Interaction.
  ACM, 2017, pp. 553–560.
+  B. Hasani and M. H. Mahoor, “Facial expression recognition using
  enhanced deep 3d convolutional neural networks,” in Computer Vision
  and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 2017 IEEE Conference
  on. IEEE, 2017, pp. 2278–2288

### SENet

+ J. Hu, L. Shen, and G. Sun, "Squeeze-and-excitation networks," Proceedings of the IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Salt Lake City, UT, United states, 2018, pp. 7132-7141, doi:10.1109/CVPR.2018.00745.

### Inception

+  X. Zhao, X. Liang, L. Liu, T. Li, Y . Han, N. V asconcelos, and
  S. Yan, “Peak-piloted deep network for facial expression recognition,”
  in European conference on computer vision. Springer, 2016, pp. 425–
  442
+ G. Levi and T. Hassner, “Emotion recognition in the wild via convolu-
  tional neural networks and mapped binary patterns,” in Proceedings of
  the 2015 ACM on international conference on multimodal interaction.
  ACM, 2015, pp. 503–510.

### AlexNet

+ G. Levi and T. Hassner, “Emotion recognition in the wild via convolu-
  tional neural networks and mapped binary patterns,” in Proceedings of
  the 2015 ACM on international conference on multimodal interaction.
  ACM, 2015, pp. 503–510.
+  H. Ding, S. K. Zhou, and R. Chellappa, “Facenet2expnet: Regularizing
  a deep face recognition net for expression recognition,” in Automatic
  Face & Gesture Recognition (FG 2017), 2017 12th IEEE International
  Conference on. IEEE, 2017, pp. 118–126

### VGGNet

+ J. Wang, H. Chen, J. Li, and X. Zhang, "Facial expression recognition based on multi-feature fusion convolutional neural network," Jourbal of Hebei University of Science and Technology, vol. 40, no. 6, 2019, pp. 540-547.`(16)`
+ Z. Qin and J. Wu, "Visual Saliency Maps Can Apply to Facial Expression Recognition," arXiv preprint arXiv:.04544, 2018.`(19)`

### HoloNet

+  A. Yao, D. Cai, P . Hu, S. Wang, L. Sha, and Y . Chen, “Holonet: towards
  robust emotion recognition in the wild,” in Proceedings of the 18th ACM
  International Conference on Multimodal Interaction. ACM, 2016, pp.
  472–478.

## 工具

### 特征提取（CNN+SVM/随机森林）

+ A. S. Razavian, H. Azizpour, J. Sullivan, and S. Carlsson, “Cnn features
  off-the-shelf: an astounding baseline for recognition,” in Computer
  Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW), 2014 IEEE Con-
  ference on. IEEE, 2014, pp. 512–519

### 不同数据集的合并

+  J. Zeng, S. Shan, and X. Chen, “Facial expression recognition with
  inconsistently annotated datasets,” in Proceedings of the European
  Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018, pp. 222–237.

### 姿态矫正

+  Y .-H. Lai and S.-H. Lai, “Emotion-preserving representation learning
  via generative adversarial network for multi-view facial expression
  recognition,” in Automatic Face & Gesture Recognition (FG 2018),
  2018 13th IEEE International Conference on.  IEEE, 2018, pp. 263–
  270

### 生成不同表情

+  F. Zhang, T. Zhang, Q. Mao, and C. Xu, “Joint pose and expression
  modeling for facial expression recognition,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
  Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2018, pp.
  3359–3368.